WorkFlow types:
1. Validate
 - Lint
 - Test
 - Static analysis(eg, Securoty, codeQulaity)

2. Build 
 - Executable
 - Container Image

3. Deploy
 - Push based deploys
 - update tags for git-ops deploys

4. Repo Automations
 - Release automations(eg, release-please)
 - Stale Issues/PRs
 - Dependency upgrades(eg, remote)

An event triggers starts a workflow, and the workflow then runs its defines jobs or tasks.
Within that workflow we have 1 or more jobs each of those job have one or more steps within them and they can be ordered in secipic manner and 
runner is the actual server env that is going to execute the job

Between the steps you are in same compute env.
Within the job you are different compute env.

keep in mind for pasing data, sharing env variables or state between this element. 

workflow is the entire thing 
job is the Object within the workflow
Steps is is the listes within that specific job

Ubunutu is deault by gh


yml breake down:

name: -> name of the workflow
on: -> The trigger. Listen for an event to initiate a new workflow run
job: -> actual job
    job identifier: -> this is required coz it runs its seperate vm, it spins a seperate vm for each job
        runs-on: -> the instance it will run on

        steps: -> the step to execute
            - run: -> run the raw command-line instruction
            - uses: -> run a pre-built action

            with: -> pass input parameters to a GitHub Action (a reusable piece of workflow logic)

            who-to-greet" -> is NOT a GitHub keyword. It is a custom input parameter defined by a specific action you're using.


we can add structure so that we can make it more structured by adding the dependency in form of need specification.
we can use "need" key to ake Dependency whih depends on what 
workflow form a Directed Acyclic graph(DAG) -> we need to specife the structure

it helps use to tak eoutput from one job and pass on to another job


for the env pass it follows the same global and local rule as coding language